README.md, before:

<div style="text-align:center"><img src="https://i.ibb.co/9YwjhGr/Travel-Api-Logo.png"/></div>

### _Created by Mr.Bates & Mr.Khakwan_

## _Description_

Travel Api is an application where the user has access to view existing entries on travel destinations or add new ones. Each entry includes the City, Country, a Description of the location, an image url and an overall rating of their experience. Users can search the database using name of city, country, and rating. Only authors of specific entries have access to editing and/or deleting them.


## _Setup/Installation Requirements_ 

1. Clone this projects repository into your local directory following [these](https://www.linode.com/docs/development/version-control/how-to-install-git-and-clone-a-github-repository/) instructions.

2. Open the now local project folder with [VSC](https://code.visualstudio.com/Download) or an equivalent

3. Download [.NET Core](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/install/runtime?pivots=os-windows) then enter the following command in the terminal to confirm installation (2.2 or higher)
```sh
dotnet -- version
``` 
4. Still in the command line, enter
```sh
dotnet tool install -g 
dotnet-script
```
5. Download [ASP.NET Core](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download) to enable live viewing on a local server

6. Open the repository, navigate to the containing folder of the project & Enter the following command to confirm build stability 

```sh
dotnet run build 
```

7. Within that same containing folder enter the following to open a live server w/auto updated viewing
```sh
dotnet watch run
``` 
8. Go to your browser and enter the following url:

```sh
http://localhost:5000
```
#### MySQL Installation & Configuration:
1. Download the MySQL Community Server DMG file [here](https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/file/?id=484914) with the "No thanks, just start my download" link.
2. On the configuration page of the installer select the following options:
* Use legacy password encryption
* Set your password
3. Open the terminal and enter the command:
*'export PATH="/usr/local/mysql/bin:$PATH"' >> ~/.bash_profile
4. Download the MySQL Workbench DMG file [here](https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/file/?id=484391)
5. Open Local Instance 3306 with the password you set.
6. Within the project directory, create a file called "appsettings.json" and fill it with the following code:
```sh
"AllowedHosts": "*",
  "ConnectionStrings": {
    "DefaultConnection": "Server=localhost;Port=3306;database=travel_api;uid=root;pwd=[YOUR PASSWORD GOES HERE];"
  }
```
7. Next, initiate a data migration by entering the following into your terminal:
```
dotnet ef migrations add Initial
```
8. Once this successfully employs, enter the following to update the data tables to correlate with the project models:
```
dotnet ef database update
```
9. You should now be able to navigate through the full functionality of the project.

## _Technology Used_

## <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/C_Sharp_%28programming_language%29">C#</a>
## <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/.NET_Core">.NET Core</a>
## <a href="https://www.postman.com/">Postman</a>
## <a href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/framework/data/adonet/ef/language-reference/entity-sql-language">Entity</a>
## <a href="https://www.mysql.com/products/workbench/">MySQL Workbench</a>

## _Specs_

|Behavior|Input|Output|
|-----|-----|-----|
|User is greeted and given option to register as new user or login as existing user|"home"|"localhost.5003/"|
|User can search existing entries by city|"Istanbul"|"5003/?city=istanbul"|
|User can search existing entries by country|"Turkey"|"5003/?country=turkey"|
|User can search existing entries by rating|"5"|"5003/?rating=5"|
|User can add place via form submission |"Add New Entry"|"5003/places/{placeId}"|
|User can edit extising place information|"Edit Entry"|"5003/edit/{placeId}"|
|User can delete existing entries|"Delete Entry"|"5003/places/{placeId}/delete"|


## _Legal_

#### MIT License

### Copyright (c) 2020 Mr.Bates & Mr.Khakwan @ Epicodus

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

Commit message:

update readme to include swagger access and new local host address.

README.md, after:

<div style="text-align:center"><img src="https://i.ibb.co/9YwjhGr/Travel-Api-Logo.png"/></div>

### _Created by Mr.Bates & Mr.Khakwan_

## _Description_

Travel Api is an application where the user has access to view existing entries on travel destinations or add new ones. Each entry includes the City, Country, a Description of the location, an image url and an overall rating of their experience. Users can search the database using name of city, country, and rating. Only authors of specific entries have access to editing and/or deleting them.


## _Setup/Installation Requirements_ 

1. Clone this projects repository into your local directory following [these](https://www.linode.com/docs/development/version-control/how-to-install-git-and-clone-a-github-repository/) instructions.

2. Open the now local project folder with [VSC](https://code.visualstudio.com/Download) or an equivalent

3. Download [.NET Core](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/install/runtime?pivots=os-windows) then enter the following command in the terminal to confirm installation (2.2 or higher)
```sh
dotnet -- version
``` 
4. Still in the command line, enter
```sh
dotnet tool install -g 
dotnet-script
```
5. Download [ASP.NET Core](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download) to enable live viewing on a local server

6. Open the repository, navigate to the containing folder of the project & Enter the following command to confirm build stability 

```sh
dotnet run build 
```

7. Within that same containing folder enter the following to open a live server w/auto updated viewing
```sh
dotnet watch run
``` 
8. Go to your browser and enter the following url:

```sh
http://localhost:5004
```
#### To Access the Swagger UI:
Add the following to the url of the local host:
```
http://localhost:5004/swagger
```
#### MySQL Installation & Configuration:
1. Download the MySQL Community Server DMG file [here](https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/file/?id=484914) with the "No thanks, just start my download" link.
2. On the configuration page of the installer select the following options:
* Use legacy password encryption
* Set your password
3. Open the terminal and enter the command:
*'export PATH="/usr/local/mysql/bin:$PATH"' >> ~/.bash_profile
4. Download the MySQL Workbench DMG file [here](https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/file/?id=484391)
5. Open Local Instance 3306 with the password you set.
6. Within the project directory, create a file called "appsettings.json" and fill it with the following code:
```sh
"AllowedHosts": "*",
  "ConnectionStrings": {
    "DefaultConnection": "Server=localhost;Port=3306;database=travel_api;uid=root;pwd=[YOUR PASSWORD GOES HERE];"
  }
```
7. Next, initiate a data migration by entering the following into your terminal:
```
dotnet ef migrations add Initial
```
8. Once this successfully employs, enter the following to update the data tables to correlate with the project models:
```
dotnet ef database update
```
9. You should now be able to navigate through the full functionality of the project.

## _Technology Used_

## <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/C_Sharp_%28programming_language%29">C#</a>
## <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/.NET_Core">.NET Core</a>
## <a href="https://www.postman.com/">Postman</a>
## <a href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/framework/data/adonet/ef/language-reference/entity-sql-language">Entity</a>
## <a href="https://github.com/swagger-api">Swagger</a>
## <a href="https://www.mysql.com/products/workbench/">MySQL Workbench</a>

## _Specs_

|Behavior|Input|Output|
|-----|-----|-----|
|User is greeted and given option to register as new user or login as existing user|"home"|"localhost.5003/"|
|User can search existing entries by city|"Istanbul"|"5003/?city=istanbul"|
|User can search existing entries by country|"Turkey"|"5003/?country=turkey"|
|User can search existing entries by rating|"5"|"5003/?rating=5"|
|User can add place via form submission |"Add New Entry"|"5003/places/{placeId}"|
|User can edit extising place information|"Edit Entry"|"5003/edit/{placeId}"|
|User can delete existing entries|"Delete Entry"|"5003/places/{placeId}/delete"|


## _Legal_

#### MIT License

### Copyright (c) 2020 Mr.Bates & Mr.Khakwan @ Epicodus

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
